VPC (Vertual Public Cloud) :- An Amazon VPC (virtual private cloud) is an isolated section of the AWS cloud where you can provision your infrastructure.
    
   Subnet (Public and Private):- A subnet or subnetwork is a logical sub-division of an IP network into multiple smaller networks.
                                 In AWS a subnet is a component(A range of IP addresses) within your VPC to provide a logical grouping of resources. 
                                 A subnet can exist within one and only one Availability Zone (1 Subnet == 1 Availability Zone). 
                                 You can launch AWS resources into any selected subnet.
           
           Public Subnet:- A public subnet is used to launch resources that must be connected to the internet for example Web Application Server. 
           A public subnet associated with the main route table directs the subnet’s traffic to the Amazon VPC’s Internet Gateway (IGW).

           Private Subnet:- A Private subnet is used to launch resources that don’t need an internet connection. It secures resources such as database 
           instances from direct access to the Internet. A private subnet associated with the route table that does not direct the subnet’s traffic 
           to the Amazon VPC’s Internet Gateway (IGW).
    
   Internet Gateways:- For a subnet to be accessible to the internet an AWS internet gateway is required. An internet gateway allows internet 
                       traffic to and from your VPC.
                       In order to make subnet public, add a route to your subnet’s route table that directs internet-bound traffic to the internet gateway.
                       You can associate exactly one Internet Gateway with a VPC. Internet Gateway is not Availability Zone specific.
    
   NAT Gateways:- NAT Gateway (NGW) is a managed Network Address Translation (NAT) service.
                  NAT Gateway does something similar to Internet Gateway (IGW), but it only works one way: Instances in a private subnet can connect to 
                  services outside your VPC but external services cannot initiate a connection with those instances.
                  NAT gateway replaces the source IP address of the instances with the IP address of the NAT gateway.
                  
                  A Nat Gateway enables instances in private subnets to connect to the internet. The Nat gateway must be deployed in the public 
                  subnet with an Elastic IP. Once the resource is created, a route table associated with the the private subnet needs to point 
                  internet-bound traffic to the NAT gateway.
    
   Route tables:- A Route table specifies which external IP address are contactable from a subnet or internet gateway. 
                   Also for IPs within the subnet to access each other. EX.>
   
   Elastic IPs
   Network ACLs
   Security groups:- A security group acts as a virtual firewall for your instance to control incoming and outgoing traffic.
                         Both instances in the private and public subnet require this security group.

Q> Difference between Internet Gateway and NAT Gateway.
    Internet Gateway (IGW) allows instances with public IPs to access the internet.
    NAT Gateway (NGW) allows instances with no public IPs to access the internet.
    
    
